# Assessing the Effects of Applying Ranking-Boosting Strategy on Friends Recommendation System on User Activeness on Kuaishou Short-Video Social Network Platform 

(Master Program Capstone Project Paper, inspired by my Internship at the User Relationship Recommendation team at Kuaishou)

## Summary

User relationship recommendation, or friend recommendation, is a common design on social media platforms, where users are receiving recommendations of people they may know or like and being recommended to others via different interfaces on the platforms. It is worthwhile analyzing the effect of these recommendations on user activeness and engagement. Our work assessed the effect of a ranking-boosting strategy deployed on the friend recommendation system of a short-video-based social network, [Kuaishou](https://www.kuaishou.com/en/products), on the online activeness of the users whose rankings on the recommendation list are boosted and therefore being followed by other users. Assessing the effects could be challenging. The average rate of following a recommended user is quite low (10\%), which created a gap in assigning and receiving treatment. Non-compliance exists in strategy assignment. A proper measurement of the outcome is required. We chose to measure the number of days a user logs in to the app (Lifetime-7, LT7) in the next 7 days. Our analysis demonstrated statistically significant causal effects of deploying ranking-boosting strategy, which is 0.29 days (SE 0.06). We also showed that users who launched app relatively less frequently during last few days are more sensitive to the treatment. Our results would serve as a reference to design more efficient friend recommendation algorithms and strategies which promote user activeness.
